"dishid","dishtype","dishname","dishdescription","dishhistory","dishimage","recipeingredients","recipeinstruction","dishvideo"
"VN-0001","Vietnamese Dish","Banh Canh Cua (Vietnamese Shrimp and Crab Thick Noodle Soup)","Banh Canh Cua is a beloved Vietnamese noodle soup featuring hearty noodles, succulent crab meat, shrimp, and a rich, aromatic broth. A staple of Vietnamese cuisine, it's particularly cherished during chilly weather.","Banh canh originates from the Southeast region of Vietnam and later became popular throughout the country. Banh canh consists of broth made from shrimp, fish, pork knuckles, and the seasoning for banh canh varies depending on the dish and the taste preferences of each region. The noodles are thicker and wider compared to pho noodles in the North. The ingredients for making banh canh noodles are also very diverse. They can be made from rice flour, wheat flour, or cassava flour. Each type of flour used for making the noodles has its own unique flavor, contributing to the distinctiveness of this dish.
","data/images/viD_img/Banh Canh Cua (Vietnames Shrimp n Crab Thick Noodle Soup).jpg","500g crab meat, 300g shrimp (peeled and deveined), 500g banh canh noodles (thick Vietnamese noodles), 1 onion (chopped), 3 cloves garlic (minced), 2 tomatoes (diced), 1.5 liters chicken broth, 2 tablespoons fish sauce, 1 tablespoon sugar, Salt and pepper to taste, Chopped scallions and cilantro for garnish, Lime wedges for serving","In a large pot, heat some oil over medium heat. Add the chopped onion and minced garlic, and sauté until fragrant. Add the diced tomatoes and cook until they begin to soften. Pour in the chicken broth and bring to a simmer. Season the broth with fish sauce, sugar, salt, and pepper to taste. Add the banh canh noodles to the broth and cook according to package instructions, usually about 5-7 minutes. Once the noodles are cooked, add the crab meat and shrimp to the pot. Cook for another 3-5 minutes until the seafood is cooked through. Taste the broth and adjust seasoning if necessary. Serve hot, garnished with chopped scallions and cilantro. Serve lime wedges on the side for squeezing over the soup.","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kyfz6XwtJqo"
"VN-0002","Vietnamese Dish","Banh Xeo (Vietnamese Crispy Savory Pancake)","Banh Xeo is a crispy Vietnamese pancake filled with shrimp, pork, bean sprouts, and herbs, typically served with lettuce leaves and a tangy dipping sauce","Bánh xèo originates from the Khmer people in the Southern region. Different regions in Vietnam have variations in color, size, filling, and dipping sauce for bánh xèo. However, the common feature of all types of bánh xèo in Vietnam is that they are made from diluted rice flour, thinly spread on a pan, and fried until crispy. The name ""bánh xèo"" comes from the sound it makes when poured onto the pan. When the batter is poured into hot oil, it sizzles and continues to sizzle until the pancake is nearly cooked. Hence, this traditional pancake is named bánh xèo.","data/images/viD_img/Banh Xeo (Vietnamese Crispy Savory Pancake) 1.jpg","For the pancake batter: 1 cup rice flour, 1 cup coconut milk, 1 cup water, 1/2 teaspoon turmeric powder, 1/2 teaspoon sugar, 1/2 teaspoon salt, For the filling: 150 grams pork belly (thinly sliced), 150 grams shrimp (peeled and deveined), 1 cup bean sprouts, 1/2 onion (thinly sliced), 2-3 green onions (sliced), A handful of fresh herbs (cilantro, mint, perilla) (chopped), Lettuce leaves (for serving), For the dipping sauce: 3 tablespoons fish sauce, 3 tablespoons water, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon lime juice, 1-2 Thai chilies (finely chopped), 1 clove garlic (minced)","In a bowl, whisk together the rice flour, coconut milk, water, turmeric powder, sugar, and salt to make the pancake batter. Let the batter rest for 30 minutes. Heat a non-stick skillet over medium-high heat. Add a bit of oil to coat the pan. Add a few slices of pork belly to the pan and cook until slightly crispy. Add a handful of shrimp and cook until they turn pink. Remove the pork and shrimp from the pan and set aside. Add a ladleful of the pancake batter to the skillet, swirling to coat the bottom evenly. Add some sliced onion, bean sprouts, green onions, and a portion of the cooked pork and shrimp to one half of the pancake. Cover the skillet and cook for 2-3 minutes until the edges of the pancake are crispy and golden brown. Fold the other half of the pancake over the filling to create a half-moon shape. Press down gently with a spatula and cook for another minute. Transfer the Banh Xeo to a plate and serve hot with lettuce leaves and fresh herbs. To eat, wrap a piece of Banh Xeo in a lettuce leaf, add some herbs, and dip into the prepared sauce.","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qTy_FF-hEO8"
"VN-0003","Vietnamese Dish","Bo Bia (Vietnamese Spring Rolls with Jicama and Egg)","Bo Bia is a Vietnamese spring roll filled with jicama, carrots, Chinese sausage, egg, and dried shrimp, wrapped in rice paper and served with a sweet and savory dipping sauce. A beloved street food snack in Vietnam.","""Bò bía"" (Hokkien: pȯh-piáⁿ, 薄皮卷, in Sino-Vietnamese is ""Bạc bính,"" meaning ""thin pastry roll"") is a dish originating from the culinary styles of Chaozhou (Teochew) and Fujian, China, now popular in Taiwan, Singapore, and Malaysia. In Fujian, it's often consumed in Haixi, while in Chaozhou, it's a common dish in the Chaozhou region in the east of the province during Qingming Festival. In Vietnam, this dish may have been introduced by Chaozhou immigrants or Peranakan people (also known as Baba Nyonya or simply Baba).

Traditional-style ""bò bía"" is rare in Vietnam nowadays. The original type of rice paper used for wrapping traditional Fujian-style ""bò bía"" is a smooth rice paper made from wheat flour (which housewives often use for wrapping spring rolls). The ingredients of ""bò bía"" rolls are very diverse: lettuce, bean sprouts, eggs, shrimp, dried shrimp, peanuts, chili sauce, black bean sauce alongside the main ingredient of a mixture of jicama and carrot. The original ""bò bía"" rolls are quite large, three times larger than those in Saigon. Therefore, vendors often cut them into multiple portions for easier consumption.

In Saigon, savory ""bò bía"" is made with ingredients such as Chinese sausage, thinly sliced ​​boiled eggs, carrots, lettuce, jicama, or turnips, dried shrimp, herbs... all finely chopped and rolled in wheat flour rice paper. The condiments served alongside include black bean sauce with peanuts, fried shallots, and ground chili. ""The use of wheat flour rice paper instead of smooth rice paper for wrapping 'bò bía' in the South can also be explained by the abundant local rice reserves. The Chinese used it to replace wheat flour in smooth rice paper, which in turn changed the way 'bò bía' is wrapped.","data/images/viD_img/Bo Bia (Vietnamese Spring Rolls with Jicama n Egg).jpg","Rice paper wrappers, 1 jicama (julienned), 1 carrot (julienned), 2 Chinese sausages (thinly sliced), 2 eggs (beaten), Dried shrimp (soaked in water and drained), Lettuce leaves, Mint leaves, Cilantro, Vietnamese perilla leaves (tia to), For the dipping sauce: 3 tablespoons hoisin sauce, 1 tablespoon peanut butter, 1 tablespoon water, 1 teaspoon soy sauce, 1 teaspoon rice vinegar, Sesame seeds for garnish","Heat a bit of oil in a pan over medium heat. Pour in the beaten eggs and swirl to coat the pan. Cook until set, then flip and cook briefly on the other side. Remove from the pan and slice into thin strips. Soften the rice paper wrappers by dipping them in warm water for a few seconds. Place the softened wrapper on a clean surface. Layer some lettuce leaves, jicama, carrot, Chinese sausage, egg strips, dried shrimp, and herbs on the lower third of the wrapper. Fold the sides of the wrapper over the filling, then roll tightly to enclose the filling. Repeat with the remaining ingredients. To make the dipping sauce, whisk together hoisin sauce, peanut butter, water, soy sauce, and rice vinegar until smooth. Serve the Bo Bia with the dipping sauce on the side, sprinkled with sesame seeds.","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vj1QDAxQRcg"
"VN-0004","Vietnamese Dish","Bun Bo Hue (Spicy Vietnamese Beef Noodle Soup)","Bun Bo Hue is a popular Vietnamese noodle soup originating from the city of Hue in central Vietnam. It is known for its spicy and robust broth made with beef bones, lemongrass, and shrimp paste, along with tender slices of beef, pork knuckle, and blog of pig. Bun Bo Hue is typically served with round rice noodles and garnished with fresh herbs, lime wedges, and shredded banana blossom.","Bun bo Hue originated during the reign of Lord Nguyen Hoang (around the 16th century). Legend has it that there was a beautiful and skilled woman named Bun, proficient in the art of making noodles. In the village of Van Cu (now part of Huong Tra town, Thua Thien Hue province), Bun innovatively created a new dish: using beef to cook broth for the noodle dish. Thus, bun bo was born, preserved, and developed through many generations. Today, bun bo Hue has been adapted with the presence of various ingredients such as pork hocks, pork blood pudding, and crab cake...

What's in bun bo Hue? A standard bowl of bun bo Hue consists of noodles, beef, pork blood pudding, crab cake, and broth. The noodle is made from a mixture of rice flour and sifted flour in a standard ratio to achieve the perfect elasticity. The beef is selected from the front leg muscle, beef shank, or tenderloin, with bright red color and light yellow fat. The eye-catching orange crab cake is made from crabmeat ground with fat, providing a natural rich taste.

The ""soul"" of bun bo Hue lies in the broth. The broth is simmered from beef bones, giving it a rich and sweet flavor. In addition, a bit of shrimp paste and lemongrass are added to the broth to enhance its enticing aroma.","data/images/viD_img/Bun Bo Hue (Spicy Vietnamese Beef Noodle Soup) 1.jpg","500g beef bones, 500g beef brisket or shank (thinly sliced), 500g pork knuckle, 200g blood of pig (sliced), 1 lemongrass stalk (bruised), 3-4 shallots (peeled), 3-4 garlic cloves (peeled), 1 onion (halved), 1 knob of ginger (sliced), 2-3 tablespoons shrimp paste, 2-3 tablespoons annatto seeds, 1 tablespoon fish sauce, 1 tablespoon sugar, Salt to taste, Round rice noodles (bun), Garnishes: bean sprouts, shredded banana blossom, lime wedges, chopped scallions, chopped cilantro, Thai basil, mint leaves, thinly sliced chili peppers","In a large pot, bring water to a boil. Add beef bones, pork knuckle, lemongrass, shallots, garlic, onion, and ginger. Simmer for at least 2 hours, skimming off any foam that rises to the surface. Remove the pork knuckle and allow it to cool slightly before slicing. Remove the beef bones and strain the broth. Return the broth to the pot and bring to a simmer. Add shrimp paste, annatto seeds, fish sauce, and sugar to the broth. Adjust seasoning with salt as needed. Cook the round rice noodles according to package instructions. Drain and rinse under cold water. To serve, divide the noodles among serving bowls. Top with slices of beef brisket, pork knuckle, blood of pigd, and any other desired garnishes. Ladle the hot broth over the noodles and garnishes. Serve immediately with lime wedges on the side.","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3772ptRYs8"
"VN-0005","Vietnamese Dish","Bun Moc (Pork and Mushroom Noodle Soup)","Bun Moc: Vietnamese noodle soup with pork, mushrooms, ginger, and fish sauce, served with rice vermicelli and chili sauce, enjoyed across Vietnam.","""Bún mọc,"" a characteristic delicacy of Hanoi, seems to have become a familiar part of Saigon's culinary scene. It appears in every nook and cranny of this city, from bustling streets to laborious alleyways, with various flavors and variations. There is often debate about the correct term ""mọc."" Some call it ""mọc"" because it is believed to originate from Mọc village (Nhân Mục – Nhân Chính), now in Thanh Xuân district, Hanoi. Others argue it should be ""mộc,"" referring to the distinct round meatballs in this bowl of noodles. Regardless, whether it's called ""mộc"" or ""mọc,"" what matters in Saigon is whether the bowl of noodles is delicious and distinctive. A delicious bowl of bún mọc always requires meticulousness and harmony in combining various spices, as well as the natural combination of noodles, meatballs, young ribs, cinnamon pork sausage, shiitake mushrooms, and onions. The broth is also carefully prepared, simmered from pork bones, skimmed to keep it clear without excessive seasoning. Furthermore, the flavorful broth is thanks to the carefully simmered ribs, providing both sweetness and tenderness so that diners can enjoy without difficulty.","data/images/viD_img/Bun Moc (Pork n Mushroom Noodle Soup).jpg","For the broth:, 1.5 liters pork broth or chicken broth, 1 onion, halved, 1 knob of ginger, sliced, 3-4 cloves garlic, smashed, 1-2 tablespoons fish sauce, 1 teaspoon sugar, Salt and pepper to taste, For the meatballs:, 300g ground pork, 100g wood ear mushrooms, finely chopped, 2-3 green onions, finely chopped, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon fish sauce, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1/2 teaspoon black pepper, To serve:, Rice vermicelli noodles (bun), Fresh herbs (cilantro, mint, Thai basil), Bean sprouts, Lime wedges, Chili sauce or sliced chili peppers","In a large pot, combine the pork broth, onion, ginger, garlic, fish sauce, sugar, salt, and pepper. Bring to a simmer and let it cook for about 30 minutes to develop flavors. Meanwhile, prepare the meatballs. In a bowl, mix together the ground pork, chopped mushrooms, green onions, egg, fish sauce, cornstarch, and black pepper until well combined. Roll the mixture into small meatballs, about 1 inch in diameter. Once the broth is ready, strain it to remove the aromatics. Return the broth to the pot and bring it back to a simmer. Carefully drop the meatballs into the simmering broth and cook for about 10-12 minutes, or until cooked through. While the meatballs are cooking, prepare the rice vermicelli noodles according to package instructions. Drain and rinse under cold water. To serve, divide the cooked noodles among serving bowls. Ladle the hot broth and meatballs over the noodles. Top with fresh herbs, bean sprouts, and a squeeze of lime juice. Serve with chili sauce or sliced chili peppers on the side.","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J_8G-Tigt0I"
"VN-0006","Vietnamese Dish","Bun Rieu (Vietnamese Crab Noodle Soup)","Bun Rieu is a beloved Vietnamese noodle soup with crab-based broth, served with rice vermicelli noodles, tofu, pork, and herbs, enjoyed widely as street food in Vietnam.","Bun Rieu Cua is a traditional Vietnamese dish, originating from the Red River Delta region of Vietnam, widely known within the country and internationally. Although both Hanoi-style and Saigon-style Bun Rieu are made with freshwater crab broth, Hanoi-style Bun Rieu is served with rare beef while Saigon-style Bun Rieu is served with pig blood and pork knuckles.

Compared to the traditional bowl of Bun Rieu, Hanoi-style Bun Rieu now includes additional ingredients such as stir-fried beef shank, pig's ears, cartilage ribs, fried tofu, balut eggs, and snails... The most enjoyable Bun Rieu experience is found at the street vendors along the ancient streets. Diners sit on small stools, holding steaming bowls of Bun, savoring the flavors while admiring the bustling streets.

This dish is enjoyable both in the summer and winter. The mild sourness of the Bun provides relief during the summer heat. Amidst the chilly winter weather, diners slurping Bun Rieu with extra pickled chilis will relish the warm spiciness.","data/images/viD_img/Bun Rieu ((Vietnamese Crab Noodle Soup).jpg","For the broth:, 1.5 liters crab broth or chicken broth, 200g canned crab meat or crab paste, 2 tomatoes, quartered, 1 onion, halved, 2-3 tablespoons shrimp paste, 1-2 tablespoons sugar, 1-2 tablespoons fish sauce, Salt and pepper to taste, For the meatballs:, 200g ground pork, 100g tofu, mashed, 2-3 green onions, finely chopped, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon fish sauce, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1/2 teaspoon black pepper, To serve:, Rice vermicelli noodles (bun), Fried tofu cubes, Bean sprouts, Fresh herbs (cilantro, mint, Thai basil), Lime wedges, Sliced chili peppers","In a large pot, combine the crab broth, canned crab meat or crab paste, tomatoes, onion, shrimp paste, sugar, fish sauce, salt, and pepper. Bring to a simmer and let it cook for about 30 minutes to develop flavors. Meanwhile, prepare the meatballs. In a bowl, mix together the ground pork, mashed tofu, green onions, egg, fish sauce, cornstarch, and black pepper until well combined. Roll the mixture into small meatballs, about 1 inch in diameter. Once the broth is ready, strain it to remove the solids. Return the broth to the pot and bring it back to a simmer. Carefully drop the meatballs into the simmering broth and cook for about 10-12 minutes, or until cooked through. While the meatballs are cooking, prepare the rice vermicelli noodles according to package instructions. Drain and rinse under cold water. To serve, divide the cooked noodles among serving bowls. Ladle the hot broth and meatballs over the noodles. Top with fried tofu cubes, bean sprouts, fresh herbs, and a squeeze of lime juice. Serve with sliced chili peppers on the side.","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wRkZ8q1ko-M"
"VN-0007","Vietnamese Dish","Bun Cha Ha Noi (Vietnamese Grilled Pork with Vermicelli Noodles)","Bún chả is a Vietnamese dish of grilled pork served with rice noodles, herbs, and dipping sauce, originating from Hanoi.","Bún chả is a Vietnamese specialty originating from Northern Vietnam, considered one of Hanoi's enduring culinary treasures. It consists of grilled fatty pork (chả) served alongside white rice noodles (bún) and herbs, accompanied by a dipping sauce. This dish was first documented in 1959 by Vietnamese food writer Vu Bang (1913–1984), who famously depicted Hanoi as a city ""enchanted by bún chả.""

Despite a common misconception among non-Vietnamese eaters associating bún chả with the Southern Vietnamese dish of vermicelli and grilled skewered pork known as bún thịt nướng, the two dishes have distinct culinary histories and cultural perceptions.

While bún chả shares similarities with bún thịt nướng from Central and Southern Vietnam, its dipping sauce typically has a lighter, milder taste.","data/images/viD_img/Bun Thit Nuong_Ha Noi Version (Vietnamese Grilled Pork Noodle) 1.jpg","For the Pork Patties:

1 1/4 pounds (567g) ground pork, 20 percent fat
1 small shallot (35g), finely chopped (about 2 tablespoons)
5 medium cloves (25g) garlic, minced (2 tablespoons)
3 tablespoons (37g) granulated sugar 
2 tablespoons (30ml) fish sauce (see note)
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Vegetable or other neutral oil, for brushing
For the Pork Belly:

1 pound (456g) skin-on pork belly, frozen for 45 to 50 minutes
2 tablespoons (30ml) hot water
2 tablespoons granulated sugar (1 ounce; 28g)
2 tablespoons (30ml) fish sauce (see note)
2 tablespoons (30ml) vegetable oil or other neutral oil
2 scallions, white and green parts, thinly sliced
1 small shallot (about 35g), roughly chopped (2 tablespoons) 
2 medium cloves (10g) garlic, roughly chopped
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
For the Pickled Carrot and Kohlrabi:

1/2 cup (120ml) water
1/4 cup (60ml) rice vinegar
1/4 cup (60ml) sugar
1 small carrot (59g), peeled and thinly sliced (1/2 cup)
1 small kohlrabi (68g), thinly sliced, then cut into small pieces (1/2 cup), see note
For the Dipping Sauce:

4 cups (960ml) water
3/4 cup granulated sugar (5.25 ounces; 150g)
1/2 cup (120ml) fish sauce (see note)
For Serving:

8 ounces (227g) uncooked rice vermicelli noodles (see note)
1 head butter lettuce, leaves picked and washed
1 bunch Thai basil (húng quế), leaves picked
1 bunch Vietnamese coriander (rau răm), leaves picked
1 bunch perilla (tiá tô), leaves picked
1 bunch peppermint (húng lủi), leaves picked
1 bunch fish mint (dấp cá), leaves picked
8 cloves (40g) garlic, chopped (about 1/4 cup)
2 bird’s eye chiles, thinly sliced","1. For the Pork Patties: In a large bowl, combine ground pork, shallots, garlic, sugar, fish sauce, and pepper and mix well. Cover bowl and refrigerate mixture for at least 4 and up to 24 hours.
2. For the Pork Belly: Using a very sharp knife, slice semi-frozen pork belly into 2-inch-long, 1/4-inch-thick slices.
3. In another large bowl, combine hot water and sugar and stir until sugar has dissolved. Add fish sauce, vegetable oil, scallions, shallot, garlic, and pepper and whisk to combine. Add pork belly slices and toss well to coat. Cover bowl and refrigerate for at least 4 and up to 24 hours.
4. For the Pickled Carrot and Kohlrabi: In small bowl, stir water, rice vinegar, and sugar until sugar has dissolved. Add sliced carrot and kohlrabi and let sit at room temperature until pickled, 2 hours.
5. For the Dipping Sauce: In a small saucepan, combine water, sugar, and fish sauce. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring until the sugar has dissolved, then boil for 5 minutes. Keep hot. (If making ahead of time, reheat before serving.)
6. To Grill the Meats: When ready to grill, remove pork mixture and pork belly from fridge. Weigh out about 2 ounces of pork mixture for each patty. Using oiled hands, form pork mixture into small patties, about 2 1/2 inches in diameter and 1/2 inch thick. Place formed patties on baking sheet lined with aluminum foil or parchment paper.
7. Light 1 chimney full of charcoal. When all charcoal is lit and covered with gray ash, pour out and arrange coals on one side of grill. Set cooking grate in place, cover grill, and allow to preheat for 5 minutes. Alternatively, turn on all the burners of a gas grill to high, close grill, and preheat for 5 minutes. Clean and oil the grill grate.
8. Brush both sides of pork patties with vegetable oil. Transfer 6 pork patties to a metal grilling basket. Grill over direct heat, turning every minute, until cooked through and browned on the outside, about 8 minutes. Transfer cooked patties to a platter or baking sheet. Repeat with remaining pork patties. Keep warm. 
9. Transfer pork belly slices to now-empty grilling basket. Grill over direct heat, turning every minute until cooked through and browned, 5 to 6 minutes. Transfer to the platter with the patties. Repeat with remaining pork belly slices. Keep warm.
10. For Serving: Cook the noodles according to the package instructions. Drain and run under cold water. Drain again and set aside.
11. Place the noodles, lettuce, and herbs on a platter. Place the garlic and sliced bird’s eye chiles in separate small bowls. Divide grilled pork patties and pork belly slices into 4 bowls. Add pickled vegetables. Ladle about 1 cup of hot dipping sauce into each bowl. Serve immediately with noodles, fresh herbs,raw garlic, and bird’s eye chiles alongside. ","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UseREbx9O8A"
"VN-0008","Vietnamese Dish","Bun Thit Nuong (Vietnamese Grilled Pork Noodle)","Bun Thit Nuong is a flavorful Vietnamese dish featuring grilled pork and vermicelli, known for its unique essence and rich taste.","Fresh, slender strands of noodles, lightly coated with fragrant scallion oil, make the noodles soft and easy to eat. Seasoned with a cup of sweet and savory fish sauce and spicy ground chili, the dish becomes irresistibly appetizing. Not only aromatic and flavorful but also rich in fats and proteins, this beloved Saigon dish can be found everywhere, from upscale restaurants to street vendors, pleasing the senses with skewers of grilled meat exuding tantalizing aromas that awaken the palate.

The origin of grilled meat noodles is uncertain, but in every region of the country, it retains its unique flavor. For example, Da Nang's grilled meat noodles are known for their elaborate broth made from soybeans, distinct from the sweet and salty fish sauce of the South, and far removed from the sour and salty fermented fish sauce. 

Each place has its own unique twist on grilled meat noodles. Sometimes, the bowl of noodles comes with spring rolls, shrimp rolls, or vegetarian spring rolls; other times, it's served with grilled pork skewers. While the main component is undoubtedly the grilled meat skewers, some places use sliced grilled meat instead, as long as it suits the preferences of the diners.","data/images/viD_img/Bun Thit Nuong_Hoi An Version (Vietnamese Grilled Pork Noodle).jpg","500g/17.5 Oz Pork belly, skin cut off, thinly sliced 
16 BBQ bamboo skewers, 180mm 
3 Tbsp honey 
1 Pack vermicelli rice noodles, boiled, following the packaging instructions  
2 Medium carrots, julienned  
1 Cucumber, julienned  
5g/0.2 Oz Coriander 
5g. 0.2 Oz Mint  
5g/0.2 Oz Perilla leaves 
5g/0.2 Oz Lemon balm  
4 Tsp crispy fried shallots 
1 Tbsp chilli oil  

Pork marinade Ingredients:  
2 Tbsp red chilli, finely chopped  
2 Tbsp garlic, finely chopped 
2 Tbsp lemongrass, finely chopped  
2 Tbsp fish sauce 
2 Tbsp oyster sauce 
1 Tbsp chicken bouillon  
5 Tbsp sesame oil 
1 Tbsp black pepper  
2 Tbsp granulated sugar  

Nước chấm fish sauce for 1 portion  
25ml/0.8 Fl Oz Fish sauce 
50ml/1.6 Fl Oz Water 
60g/ 2 Oz Sugar 
25ml/ 0.8 Fl Oz Lime juice 
10g/0.4 Oz Garlic, minced ","1. Cut the pork belly into 3cm/1-inch strips, then thinly cut those strips widthways, into 3mm/ 0.1 inch slices.  Put the pork slices into a large bowl, add all of the marinade ingredients and mix well. Cover and put into the fridge to marinate for 3 hours, or ideally overnight for best results. 
2. Soak the bamboo skewers in cold water for 5 minutes before use and then one by one, skew the pork slices on, folding over any larger pieces. 
3. Put all of the nước chấm fish sauce ingredients into a bowl, mix well and set aside.
4. Place the skewers on to a baking tray, brush each one with honey, then grill in your Gozney for 7-8 minutes at 300°C/572°F, turning halfway through. 
5. Plate the skewers onto a bed of rice noodles, add the carrots, cucumber and fresh herbs, then sprinkle with crispy fried shallots. 
6. Lastly, pour over the Vietnamese nước chấm fish sauce and drizzle with chilli oil to complete the dish!","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qY1m5tiFNDM"
"VN-0009","Vietnamese Dish","Ca Kho To (Vietnamese Braised Fish)","Ca Kho To is a traditional Vietnamese dish featuring catfish braised in a caramelized sauce made from fish sauce, sugar, and aromatics. ","When it comes to the Southern region, people immediately think of the intricate system of canals, streams, and rivers that crisscross the area, providing an abundance of seafood with a wide variety of species. Mentioning the South brings to mind fish, shrimp, crabs... Perhaps originating from the richness of these natural aquatic resources, the culinary culture of the Southern land is diverse, with many cooking methods. With just a simple example like fish, Southern people can create many delicious dishes such as grilled fish, fried fish, sour soup with fish, fish porridge... But perhaps the most representative, the most characteristic dish is probably braised fish in clay pot.

Braised fish in clay pot, just by its name, evokes a familiar object, the clay pot. The pot is a utensil made from clay and fired. Without the clay pot, the dish would lose some of its characteristic flavors. Braising fish in a clay pot is an image from a time when migrants came to a land abundant in nature, with abundant wildlife, and with limited material resources, so they had to make their own tools to serve their lives.

Braised fish in clay pot may seem simple as just a braised fish dish, but over time, it can be seen that not every type of fish braised in a clay pot will carry the full flavor of this dish. And to this day, it is believed that only snakehead fish, carp, catfish, climbing perch, or mudfish are the most suitable ingredients for a delicious braised fish in clay pot dish.","data/images/viD_img/Ca Kho To (Vietnamese Braised Fish).jpg","500g catfish fillets (cut into chunks), 3 tablespoons fish sauce, 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon caramel sauce (nuoc mau), 3 cloves garlic (minced), 1 shallot (thinly sliced), 2-3 red chili peppers (sliced), 2-3 green onions (cut into 2-inch pieces), 1/2 cup coconut water or water, Freshly ground black pepper, Fresh herbs (cilantro, Thai basil) for garnish","In a bowl, mix together fish sauce, sugar, and caramel sauce until well combined. In a clay pot or deep skillet, heat a bit of oil over medium heat. Add minced garlic and sliced shallots, and sauté until fragrant. Add the fish pieces to the pot and sear on both sides until lightly browned. Pour the fish sauce mixture over the fish, then add sliced chili peppers, green onions, and coconut water or water. Cover and simmer over low heat for about 20-30 minutes, or until the fish is cooked through and the sauce has thickened. Taste and adjust seasoning if needed, adding more fish sauce or sugar as desired. Garnish with freshly ground black pepper and chopped fresh herbs before serving. Enjoy with steamed rice.","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQiyxrYDNpY"
"VN-0010","Vietnamese Dish","Canh Chua (Vietnamese Sour Soup)","Canh Chua is a traditional Vietnamese soup known for its sweet, sour, and savory flavors.","Canh chua is a dish that is very simple and familiar on the dining table of Vietnamese people. While people in the northern region often enjoy sour fish soup on hot summer days, in the central, western, and southern regions, this soup is a common presence on daily dining tables.

The ""version"" of sour soup in the northern style often includes some regional specialty fruits such as starfruit, gourd, or sour tamarind. Particularly, housewives never add sugar to the soup to preserve the natural taste of the ingredients. Meanwhile, in the western and southern regions, sour soup always combines a rich sweetness from sugar, accompanied by spicy chili peppers.

Each region has its own cooking method, but in general, regardless of the recipe, the soup still retains the sweet, sour taste of the ingredients cooked from various fruits or vegetables.","data/images/viD_img/Canh Chua (Vietnamese Sour Soup) 1.jpg","500g fish fillets (snakehead fish or catfish) (cut into chunks), 200g shrimp (peeled and deveined), 1 tomato (sliced), 1/2 cup pineapple chunks, 2-3 tablespoons tamarind pulp (dissolved in 1 cup warm water), 2-3 tablespoons sugar, 2-3 tablespoons fish sauce, 1 shallot (thinly sliced), 3-4 cloves garlic (minced), 2-3 red chili peppers (sliced), A handful of fresh herbs (Vietnamese coriander, sawtooth herb), 2-3 sprigs of fresh dill, Water, Salt to taste","In a pot, heat a bit of oil over medium heat. Add sliced shallots and minced garlic, and sauté until fragrant. Add the tamarind water, fish sauce, sugar, and a pinch of salt to the pot. Stir to combine. Add enough water to the pot to make the desired amount of soup. Bring to a simmer. Add the fish fillets to the pot and simmer gently until they are almost cooked through. Add the shrimp, tomato slices, pineapple chunks, and sliced chili peppers to the pot. Simmer for another few minutes until the shrimp turn pink and the fish is fully cooked. Taste the soup and adjust the seasoning if needed, adding more sugar or fish sauce as desired. Add fresh herbs and dill to the pot, then remove from heat. Serve hot with steamed rice. Enjoy the tangy and flavorful soup!","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KcDTzo8dAq4"
"VN-0011","Vietnamese Dish","Cao Lau Hoi An (Vietnamese Noodle Bowl)","Cao lầu is a Vietnamese noodle dish from Hoi An, consisting of thick noodles, pork slices, fresh herbs, and crispy rice crackers. Its flavor is enhanced by using water from Ba Le well and ash from Cham Island.","During Tet's chilly days, a stroll through Hoi An's Old Quarter reveals venerable eateries, their waitresses in ao dai, and ""cao lầu"" on the menu. This dish, a local specialty, embodies the town's culinary essence.
Cao lầu is distinct—a fusion found only in Hoi An, Da Nang, and Hue. It's served with yellow noodles, shrimp, pork, and fresh greens, bearing a yellow hue from ash sourced from Cham Island. Dating back to the 17th century, it's intertwined with Hoi An's history.
Despite its Chinese-sounding name, cao lầu is a synthesis of various cultures. Originally dubbed ""going upstairs"" for its luxury, it's evolved into the beloved dish we know today. With crispy noodles achieved through a meticulous process, cao lầu encapsulates the essence of Hoi An's culinary tradition.","data/images/viD_img/Cao Lau Hoi An (Vietnamese Noodle Bowl) .jpg","250g thick rice noodles, 200g pork loin or pork belly (thinly sliced), 2 cups bean sprouts, 1/2 cup crispy pork rinds, 1/2 cup fresh herbs (cilantro, mint, Thai basil), 1/4 cup sliced green onions, Lettuce leaves, For the broth: 1 liter pork broth or chicken broth, 2-3 shallots (sliced), 3-4 cloves garlic (minced), 2 tablespoons soy sauce, 1 tablespoon fish sauce, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon five-spice powder, 1 teaspoon turmeric powder, Salt and pepper to taste","In a pot, heat a bit of oil over medium heat. Add sliced shallots and minced garlic, and sauté until fragrant. Add pork slices to the pot and cook until browned. Pour in the pork broth or chicken broth and bring to a simmer. Season the broth with soy sauce, fish sauce, sugar, five-spice powder, turmeric powder, salt, and pepper. Cook the thick rice noodles according to package instructions. Drain and rinse under cold water. To serve, divide the cooked noodles among serving bowls. Top with slices of cooked pork, bean sprouts, crispy pork rinds, fresh herbs, and sliced green onions. Pour the hot broth over the noodles and garnishes. Serve with lettuce leaves and chili sauce on the side. Enjoy the unique flavors of Cao Lau!","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l4DhkuZuNeI"
"VN-0012","Vietnamese Dish","Goi Cuon Tom Thit (Vietnamese Spring Rolls)","Goi Cuon, also known as Vietnamese spring rolls or fresh summer rolls, are a popular Vietnamese appetizer made with shrimp, pork, vermicelli noodles, and fresh herbs wrapped in rice paper. ","Gỏi cuốn is a popular dish in Vietnam. Originating from the southern region of Vietnam, it is known as gỏi cuốn and is made from ingredients such as lettuce, basil, perilla leaves, dried shrimp, herbs, boiled meat, and fresh shrimp—all wrapped in rice paper. The accompanying sauce is made from ground roasted peanuts mixed with oil-fried minced shallots. Everything is finely chopped and wrapped in rice paper made from wheat flour. The accompanying sauce is a mixture of chili sauce and ground roasted peanuts fried with oil-fried minced shallots.

This dish is widespread in Vietnam, primarily using rice paper rolled with various ingredients depending on the region. It's often served as an appetizer or paired with drinks as a snack, made from rice paper rolled with various herbs, vermicelli, and some types of meat such as beef, pork, duck, shrimp, fish, crab, etc.

Dishes using rice paper for rolling are generally a prevalent form of cuisine throughout the three regions of North, Central, and South Vietnam. There is almost no fixed recipe for dishes using rice paper rolls, as ingredients and methods of rolling vary greatly depending on locality, region, and available ingredients.","data/images/viD_img/Goi Cuon Tom Thit (Vietnamese Spring Rolls) 1.jpg","12 rice paper wrappers (banh trang), 12 cooked medium shrimp (peeled and halved lengthwise), 200g pork shoulder (thinly sliced and cooked), 1 cup cooked rice vermicelli noodles, 1 cup bean sprouts, 1 cup lettuce leaves, 1 cup fresh herbs (cilantro, mint, Thai basil), 12 pieces of chives or green onions, For the dipping sauce: 3 tablespoons hoisin sauce, 2 tablespoons peanut butter, 1 tablespoon soy sauce, 1 tablespoon lime juice, 1 clove garlic (minced), 1 teaspoon sriracha sauce (optional), Water (as needed)","Fill a large shallow bowl with warm water. Dip one rice paper wrapper into the water for a few seconds until it softens. Carefully transfer the softened rice paper to a clean, flat surface. Place a couple of shrimp halves, slices of cooked pork, a handful of rice vermicelli noodles, bean sprouts, lettuce leaves, and fresh herbs in the center of the rice paper. Fold the bottom edge of the rice paper over the filling, then fold the sides towards the center. Roll tightly to enclose the filling completely. Repeat with the remaining ingredients to make more spring rolls. To make the dipping sauce, whisk together hoisin sauce, peanut butter, soy sauce, lime juice, minced garlic, and sriracha sauce in a small bowl. Add water as needed to achieve desired consistency. Serve the spring rolls with the dipping sauce on the side. Enjoy!","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0w-ix8k3lpc"
"VN-0013","Vietnamese Dish","Goi Xoai (Vietnamese Mango Salad)","Goi Xoai is a refreshing Vietnamese salad made with green mangoes, shrimp, herbs, and a tangy dressing.","Amidst the myriad of dishes in Southern Vietnamese cuisine, salad is considered a refreshing and universally appealing dish. The combination of crisp vegetables, fragrant herbs, succulent shrimp, tender meat, all mixed with a sweet and tangy dressing, creates an unforgettable flavor. Mentioning salad without referring to mangoes is impossible - a fruit seemingly familiar but remarkably versatile when incorporated into various salads.

Mangoes are known as tropical fruits, predominantly cultivated in the Mekong Delta provinces such as Tien Giang, Dong Thap, Can Tho, etc. Due to their easy cultivation and care, mango trees bear fruit throughout the year. Thanks to the ingenuity of cooks, from a simple fruit, mangoes have now become the main ingredient in many dishes, including savory ones, among which mango salad stands out - a delightful and refreshing combination, perfect for hot summer days.","data/images/viD_img/Goi Xoai (Vietnanese Mango Salad).jpg","2 green mangoes (julienned), 200g cooked shrimp (peeled and deveined), 1 cup bean sprouts, 1/2 cup chopped fresh herbs (cilantro, mint, Thai basil), 1/4 cup chopped roasted peanuts, 1-2 red chili peppers (thinly sliced), For the dressing: 3 tablespoons fish sauce, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons lime juice, 2 cloves garlic (minced), 1 Thai chili (minced), Water (as needed)","In a large bowl, combine julienned green mangoes, cooked shrimp, bean sprouts, chopped fresh herbs, chopped roasted peanuts, and sliced chili peppers. In a small bowl, whisk together fish sauce, sugar, lime juice, minced garlic, and minced Thai chili to make the dressing. Add water as needed to adjust the consistency. Pour the dressing over the salad and toss gently to coat everything evenly. Let the salad sit for a few minutes to allow the flavors to meld together. Serve the Goi Xoai salad as a refreshing appetizer or side dish. Enjoy!","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2GrIBewiHv4"
"VN-0014","Vietnamese Dish","Mi Quang (Vietnamese Noodle with Pork anh Shrimp)","Mi Quang is a Vietnamese noodle dish originating from the central region of Vietnam. It features wide rice noodles, pork, shrimp, and a flavorful broth made with turmeric and aromatics.","""Mì Quảng"" from Quang Nam is nearly the first dish that comes to mind when speaking of the culinary characteristics of the Quang Nam - Da Nang region. Although this dish can be found scattered throughout other provinces and cities of the country, it's only when eaten in Quang Nam that one fully appreciates its rich flavor.

""Mì Quảng"" appears to be a unique creation of the Quang Nam region, not based on any existing tradition. Firstly, regarding its name, the term ""mì"" (noodles) seems inappropriate but is quite distinctive. Noodles are originally a product of the Chinese, made from wheat flour. Traditional Vietnamese dishes didn't include any dishes called ""mì"" (except for ""mì Quảng,"" of course). ""Mì Quảng"" is the only noodle dish in Vietnam, but ironically, it merely borrows the name; in reality, those strands are made from rice flour, without any trace of wheat flour. Its uniqueness lies in this aspect. Not relying on any tradition, even the naming convention is novel. ""Mì Quảng"" deserves to be a subject of cultural research in the history of the Central region.
Currently, ""mì Quảng"" offers various versions like snakehead fish, chicken, shrimp, and meat, with the latest being frog. Though not complex to cook, it requires meticulous ingredient preparation. A bowl of ""mì Quảng"" boasts colorful natural ingredients, flavorful broth, 9-flavor raw vegetables, sesame rice crackers, peanuts, and more. Its vibrant yellow noodles pair perfectly with green chilies, offering a rich and spicy flavor. Accompanied by black sesame rice crackers and raw vegetables, it epitomizes Central Vietnamese cuisine.","data/images/viD_img/Mi Quang (Vietnames Noodle with Pork n Shrimp) 1.jpg","300g wide rice noodles (mi quang noodles), 200g pork belly (thinly sliced), 200g shrimp (peeled and deveined), 1 onion (thinly sliced), 2-3 cloves garlic (minced), 1 tablespoon turmeric powder, 1 tablespoon fish sauce, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon cooking oil, 1 liter pork or chicken broth, For the toppings: Bean sprouts, Chopped scallions, Chopped cilantro, Chopped peanuts, Crispy rice crackers, Lime wedges, Sliced chili peppers","In a bowl, marinate the pork slices and shrimp with minced garlic, turmeric powder, fish sauce, and sugar. Let it marinate for about 15-30 minutes. Heat oil in a large pot over medium heat. Add the marinated pork and shrimp, along with sliced onion, and sauté until fragrant. Pour in the pork or chicken broth and bring to a simmer. Let it cook for about 10-15 minutes to develop flavors. While the broth is simmering, cook the rice noodles according to package instructions. Drain and rinse under cold water. To serve, divide the cooked noodles among serving bowls. Ladle the hot broth and meat over the noodles. Top with bean sprouts, chopped scallions, chopped cilantro, chopped peanuts, and crispy rice crackers. Serve with lime wedges and sliced chili peppers on the side. Enjoy the vibrant flavors of Mi Quang!","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hP9Pyi4GUGc"
"VN-0015","Vietnamese Dish","Nem Nuong (Vietnamese Grilled Pork Skewers)","Nem Nuong: Vietnamese grilled pork skewers, savory-sweet and served as an appetizer or main dish with lettuce, herbs, and rice paper.","Grilled pork skewers, or grilled meatballs, are Vietnamese specialties and are popular dishes in this country, sometimes served as an appetizer or a standalone light dish, or accompanied by noodles (or rice) as a main course. Grilled pork skewers are a specialty of Khanh Hoa province (Nha Trang).
Grilled pork skewers can be enjoyed as an appetizer or a light dish on their own, served with dipping sauce, or with peanut dipping sauce. The dipping sauce is fish sauce diluted with water and mixed with sugar, lime juice, finely chopped raw garlic, finely chopped hot chili peppers (Thai chili peppers)/cayenne peppers, and sometimes with vinegar. Peanut dipping sauce is made from peanut butter and hoisin sauce, with the flavors of fish sauce and finely mashed garlic, topped with finely crushed peanuts. It is served with fresh vegetables such as lettuce, julienned vegetables such as carrots and radishes, or fresh herbs such as mint and basil. When eating, diners can squeeze lime and add chili paste according to taste.
Grilled pork skewers can be served as a main dish with noodles, for example: Grilled pork with noodles and rice, for example, broken rice. Grilled pork skewers are also a common filling in spring rolls.","data/images/viD_img/Nem Nuong (Vietnamese Grilled Pork Skewers) 1.jpg","500g ground pork, 3 cloves garlic (minced), 1 shallot (minced), 2 tablespoons fish sauce, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon black pepper, Bamboo skewers (soaked in water), Lettuce leaves, Fresh herbs (cilantro, mint, Thai basil), Rice paper, Dipping sauce (nuoc cham) for serving","In a bowl, mix together ground pork, minced garlic, minced shallot, fish sauce, sugar, and black pepper until well combined. Cover the bowl and let the mixture marinate in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour, or overnight for best results. Preheat a grill or grill pan over medium-high heat. Thread the marinated pork onto bamboo skewers, shaping them into sausage-like shapes. Grill the skewers for about 3-4 minutes on each side, or until cooked through and slightly charred. While the pork skewers are grilling, prepare lettuce leaves, fresh herbs, and rice paper for wrapping. To serve, place a lettuce leaf and a few sprigs of fresh herbs on a piece of rice paper. Add a grilled pork skewer and roll it up tightly. Serve the Nem Nuong rolls with dipping sauce (nuoc cham) on the side. Enjoy!","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A6jpax8b3Ts"
"VN-0016","Vietnamese Dish","Pho Bo (Beef Pho)","Pho Bo is a popular Vietnamese beef noodle soup, it is enjoyed nationwide with fragrant spices, fresh herbs, and chili peppers.","Phở is considered one of the quintessential dishes of Vietnamese cuisine.
The main components of phở are flat rice noodles and a broth accompanied by thinly sliced beef or chicken. The most suitable beef for making phở is meat and bones from native cattle breeds (such as beef from the countryside or yellow cattle). Additionally, it is served with condiments such as hoisin sauce, pepper, lime, fish sauce, chili, etc. These condiments are added according to the taste preferences of the consumer. Phở is typically consumed as a breakfast dish or as a late-night snack; however, in major cities, it can be enjoyed all day long. In the southern provinces of Vietnam and some other regions, phở is served with a plate of fresh herbs such as onions, bean sprouts, and various aromatic herbs, including coriander, mint, among which culantro is a characteristic leaf of phở; however, in Hanoi, this plate of raw herbs is usually not included. Phở is commonly made with beef or chicken, but sometimes there are other variations, especially phở with beef stew, dried phở, stir-fried phở, sour phở, duck phở in Cao Bang, and roasted meat phở in the northern mountainous provinces.","data/images/viD_img/Pho Bo (Beef Pho) 1.jpg","For the broth: 3 liters beef broth, 1 onion (halved), 1 knob of ginger (sliced), 3-4 shallots (peeled), 3-4 garlic cloves (peeled), 2-3 star anise, 2-3 cinnamon sticks, 2-3 cloves, 1-2 cardamom pods, 1 tablespoon coriander seeds, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1-2 tablespoons fish sauce, Salt to taste, For the bowls: 500g beef sirloin or flank (thinly sliced), 400g rice noodles (pho noodles), Garnishes: bean sprouts, fresh herbs (cilantro, Thai basil, mint), lime wedges, thinly sliced onion, thinly sliced chili peppers, Optional: hoisin sauce, sriracha sauce","In a large pot, bring beef broth to a boil. Add onion, ginger, shallots, garlic, star anise, cinnamon sticks, cloves, cardamom pods, coriander seeds, sugar, and fish sauce. Reduce heat to low and let the broth simmer for at least 1 hour, skimming off any foam that rises to the surface. While the broth is simmering, prepare the rice noodles according to package instructions. Drain and rinse under cold water. Thinly slice the beef sirloin or flank against the grain. To serve, divide the cooked rice noodles among serving bowls. Top with slices of raw beef. Ladle the hot broth over the beef and noodles, ensuring that the beef slices are submerged in the hot broth to cook them. Serve immediately with garnishes such as bean sprouts, fresh herbs, lime wedges, thinly sliced onion, and chili peppers. Optional: Serve with hoisin sauce and sriracha sauce on the side for dipping or added flavor. Enjoy the comforting flavors of Pho Bo!","https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xxM4t8vP-0A"
